Validation in Grid and TreeList docs (#614)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/grid/editing/validation.md

---
title: Validation

> page_title: Grid - Validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: Grid Validation
```

description: Built-in validation in the Grid and how to customize the validation behavior.
slug: grid-editing-validation
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,validation,editing
published: True
position: 40
---

# Grid Validation

> The Telerik UI for Blazor Grid supports built-in validation That is enabled by default. The Grid passes down an `EditContext` as a cascading value to the editable cells in the component. If any validation messages are present the Grid will render them as [Validation Tooltips]({%slug validation-tools-tooltip%}) on hover of the specific editor. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Telerik UI for Blazor Grid supports built-in validation that is enabled by default. The Grid passes an `EditContext` as a cascading value to the editable cells. If any validation messages are present, the Grid will render them as [Validation Tooltips]({%slug validation-tools-tooltip%}) on hover of the specific editor. 
```

> #### In this article:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### In this Article:
```

* [Disable the validation](#disable-the-validation)

> 

Reviewer: We address a possible docs styling issue by using a separate list for each item. It's better to fix the styling, instead of using incorrect markup.
```suggestion
```

* [Use a custom validator](#use-custom-validator)

> ## Disable the validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Disable Validation
```

> To disable the built-in validation you should add the `GridValidationSettings` to the `<GridSettings>` and set the `Enabled` parameter to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable the built-in validation, add a `<GridValidationSettings>` tag to the `<GridSettings>` and set the `Enabled` parameter to `false`.
```

    public static class MyService
    {
        private static List<SampleData> _data { get; set; } = new List<SampleData>();

        public static async Task Create(SampleData itemToInsert)
        {
            itemToInsert.ID = _data.Count + 1;
            _data.Insert(0, itemToInsert);
        }

        public static async Task<List<SampleData>> Read()
        {
            if (_data.Count < 1)
            {
                for (int i = 1; i < 50; i++)
                {
                    _data.Add(new SampleData()
                    {
                        ID = i,
                        Name = "Name " + i.ToString()
                    });
                }
            }

            return await Task.FromResult(_data);
        }

        public static async Task Update(SampleData itemToUpdate)
        {
            var index = _data.FindIndex(i => i.ID == itemToUpdate.ID);
            if (index != -1)
            {
                _data[index] = itemToUpdate;
            }
        }

        public static async Task Delete(SampleData itemToDelete)
        {
            _data.Remove(itemToDelete);
        }
    }
}
````

> ## Use a custom validator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use a Custom Validator
```
